HTML Lesson 1: Optional homework (#36)
Code-Your-Future/syllabus: docs/react/week-2/lesson.md

}
```

> You might find it a little strange that we have a function inside a function. But this is a normal thing to do in JavaScript! `logWhenClicked` is within the _scope_ of our `ClickLogger` component.

Reviewer: In the block above this: "We still need to listen events in React" should probably be rephrased slightly

- `onPlay` - a video starts playing
- `onSubmit` - a form element is submitted

> Notice that just like with `addEventListener` above, we pass the function reference to `onClick` instead of calling the function. If we call the function, it will run when we render, not when the user clicks on the button.

Reviewer: I'm not sure we've actually defined/explained the word "render" in week 1. I think it's implicitly meant to be explained in the sentence "We _render_ the HelloWorld component into a div with the id of root." in the "React Components" section, but it may be worth adding a 1-2 sentence explanation there (and maybe re-capping it here).

To fully understand this bit of code, we first have to understand _destructuring_. Let's look at [this blog post by Wes Bos about array destructuring](https://github.com/wesbos/es6-articles/blob/master/19%20-%20Destructing%20Arrays.md).

> Now we can understand that `useState` is returning an array, with two items. The first item in the array is the current value of the `count` state. In our example it will be 0 on the first render. The second item in the array is a function that we will use to update our state.

Reviewer: In the block above, "Finally, let's at how we get hold of the count variable:" is missing probably the word "look"

On the second render, `count` is now set to 1. Every time we click the button, the whole cycle starts again.

> | Exercise D (estimate: 15 min)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer: I'd possibly be a bit more explicit in the "When re-rendering" sentence above; something like:

When re-rendering, React will call our `Counter` component again, but this time when we call `useState` it will give us the **updated** state of `1`, instead of the _initial_ state of `0`.

| 2. Create a new state variable with `useState`. It should be named `caught` and be initialised to `0`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| 3. Within the JSX, there should be a "hard-coded" number 0. Replace it with your new `caught` state.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| 4. Add a button to the component with an `onClick` handler that calls a function called `catchPokemon`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

> | 5. Create the `catchPokemon` function and update the `caught` state so that it is increased by 1 on each click. <details><summary>Click here if you are stuck.</summary>You will need to call the set state function (the 2nd item in the `useState` array) with `caught + 1`.</details>                                                                                                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 5. Create the `catchPokemon` function and have it update the `caught` state so that it is increased by 1 on each click. <details><summary>Click here if you are stuck.</summary>You will need to call the set state function (the 2nd item in the `useState` array) with `caught + 1`.</details>                                                                                                      |
```

> | 6. Write down the things that will happen when you click the button. Compare your list with another student and discuss. <details><summary>Click here for a hint.</summary>The state will be updated to be the current state + 1. React is notified that our state has changed, so it re-renders. When rendering, the current state will be different and so React updates the DOM.</details> |

Reviewer: The wording of the "Don't mutate state" section implies that React is throwing an error, or at least logging a warning somewhere. The nuance of making something readonly is a bit more fiddly than I think we should go into, though... I'd maybe rewrite it as:

As we just learned, `setCount` updates the state for us, but it also notifies React of changes. If you try to just change the `count` variable without using `setState`, nothing will happen, because React wouldn't be notified of the change. You can _only_ modify state using the setter function.

And then maybe removing the sentence "React is letting us know that we have to use `setCount` to be able to update state."

}
```

### More complex states

The examples we've looked at so far have used numbers, strings and booleans. You can also use arrays and objects in state too. Let's take a look at an example ([interactive example](https://codesandbox.io/s/more-complex-state-with-usestate-b34wf?file=/src/ShoppingList.js)).

```js
function ShoppingList() {
  const [list, setList] = useState([]);

  function addToList() {
    setList(list.concat("Bread"));
  }

  return (
    <p>
      <button onClick={addToList}>Add item to list</button>
      {list.map((item, index) => {
        return <li key={index}>{item}</li>;
      })}
    </p>
  );
}
```

> In this shopping list example, we're initialising the `list` state to be an empty array. To display our list we loop through the array (like we learned last week) and render each item on the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this shopping list example, we're initialising the `list` state to be an empty array. To display our list we loop through the array (like we learned last week) and render an `<li>` for each item in the list.
```
